Hey guys welcome back.
So in the last group of lectures we went over the process for setting up and running ads and adverts
with all the paid options you could consider and words could be a natural fit to go along with your
Organic SEO efforts.
But in your case you might opt for a different approach and go with paid ads that reach people not when
they're searching but when they're doing something else like using Facebook.
Now most of the social platforms out there Facebook is by far the biggest and it's become a really successful
channel for certain marketers.
Now here is why this book has a ton of data on its users.
Well what kind of data you ask.
Well they track what you post.
They track what you like they track what you subscribe to and of course they track things like your
relationship status location job info family info all that stuff people happily enter into their profile.
Really this is what drives life in college and if you allow it or haven't figured out how to disable
it yet Facebook can also access your browser history so they know what you've recently looked at outside
of Facebook.
True story Facebook can look at all the sites that you've been to and then take all these other factors
combined and then they can predict behavior.
So for instance they can look for people who just lost their job because you'll be looking for.
You could be going on linked and looking for job ads or working on your resume.
They can also tell if you're if you're going to move soon.
Right.
It's kind of creepy.
But they can do this somewhat well.
So Facebook uses all this info to serve up ads that are as relevant as you can probably get.
Now if you ever wondered why you started seeing ads for let's say one productivity app after you checked
out the Web site for another one.
Well there you go.
Facebook ads come in many different flavors as well.
They can be taxed with one image text with multiple images or even a video.
And the ads all come with clear calls to action on them that you can define.
So customers will know when they can sign up or buy or visit now or whatever it says Facebook ads appear
right in the customer's regular news feed.
Yes.
They can appear in other spots as well.
Even on Instagram is another benefit of advertising with Facebook by the way.
But plenty of ads show up in between your cousin's post about his love of buffalo wings.
And an update from your favorite band saying they broke up again.
So as far as visibility goes Facebook ads are very visible.
So how can you jump in with ads of your own.
Well there's a few things that you generally going to need first.
First thing you have to do is you have a Facebook business account to manage ads and set up billing
info.
That one's really easy to set up.
Number two a Facebook page for your business.
Again pretty easy.
Number three a Facebook account.
Thankfully none of these things are really tough at all to get started.
Now let's start by just simply setting up a Facebook business manager account.
Now this is just an account where you can manage ads and share responsibility and access with other
people if necessary.
So just go to business dot Facebook dot com then click add business type in your business name and then
your name and the business email address you want to use.
After that you'll want to either create your first page or claim a page you've been using to promote
your stuff.
Either way here's what you need to do.
Cook the business settings button in the upper right on the next page you should see people on assets
in bold on the left and under that an icon menu roll over the second icon.
That's pages and then click that it should say you have no pages yet no problem.
Well click.
Just add new pages.
And if your page already exists somewhere then you can click claim a page now type it in and it should
appear and then hit the claim button if that's the case.
But if you don't have a page at most you guys probably don't.
Then click on Add new pages then create a new page that will take you through the process of setting
up a page.
Since we're at this point talking about SDM and advertising in general social ads I'm going to assume
you've already created a page for your business or product.
If you haven't well pause here and just read it now you'll honestly need a page going forward.
We kind of set this up earlier in the course but it's relatively easy to use.
I use Kanva.
It's a free design app that helps you make Facebook cover posts helps you set up your profile image
helps you do a lot.
It really shouldn't take a lot of time to get something up decently looking that you can use going forward.
Also keep in mind your ads don't necessarily link to this page.
They just want to associate this activity with a page so it doesn't actually even need to look that
great.
OK so you've claimed a page or created a page.
The third thing you need to set up now is a Facebook account.
Well you'll need an an account to pay for your advertising so let's do that one real quick.
It's another very easy process.
Number one under people and assets roll over of the third icon down that's at accounts.
Click that then it should say you have no account obviously no problem.
Click Add new an account and then create new an account.
Then in the next grade you'll need a name for your account.
You could put your business name or your name or whatever it doesn't matter is not public on behalf
of means which page you're doing the ad work for.
Choose the one you just claimed are at it then choose your time zone and your currency.
If you have no payment option yet that's actually fine you can add that later.
Submit that form and it will create your account.
Now if you thought you were totally done there's two more quick things the Facebook system will ask
you to do.
I don't want to know if you want to use the new account you just created for testing purposes when you
create any new ad campaigns.
You can follow the prompts to say yes if you want to you probably a good idea.
Then it will ask if you want to set up payment methods so you can actually run a campaign when you set
it up.
If you can set this up now it's going to save you a lot of time later.
Just follow link and the steps they give you and you can just add your credit card and that's pretty
much how they're going to charge you.
I think they might even take paypal Once you have the payment method set up well and you can also set
a spending limit which is another good idea to make sure that you don't max out whatever credit card
you just added.
So there you go.
You have everything set up for your Facebook ad campaigns and honestly that's probably the most complex
part of this whole thing.
You are actually in the next few lectures setting up the ads themselves are a lot more fun than AdWords
and I think they're a lot easier.
Anyway we'll dive into that next lecture.
You'll see that.